# About Me

I'm a self-taught iOS app developer by way of Ray Wenderlich. I've read two RW books: *Swift Apprentice* and *iOS Apprentice*. I'm currently reading *Data Structures & Algorithms*, and *Server Side Swift with Vapor*. I aim to become a full stack developer, and I have hopes of creating and publishing my own apps.

I've developed one app, NFL Draftipedia. It's a reference app that lists NFL draft picks by year and by team, with a bio page for each player. It has a search capability. I submitted for it review three times to the App Store, and each time it was rejected for insufficient content and insufficient features. So I added more of each after each rejection, to no avail. I wrote a strong rebuttal after the third rejection: There was once an app in the App Store that did exactly the same thing as my app, which has since been deleted from the App Store due to it no longer being maintained; and my app does what that app did but mine is better. In other words, my app fills a hole in the App Store. I was fortunate enough to garner a phone call from Apple. They said they no longer accept reference apps, no matter how complete the data set and no matter the feature set surrounding it. They even mentioned that including a social media component isn't enough, which was exactly a feature that I intended to include in a later version. It had to have an app experience more meaningful than the value of the data alone, they said.

This was very discouraging to hear. It brought an end to the commercial hopes that I had for the app. (The business model was to sell it for 99c on the App Store.) So I've repurposed the app for now as a portfolio app, to support my efforts in starting a career as an iOS app developer. The app resides on my GitHub repository. It works, and I'm still developing and adding to it. But I've also moved on to other challenges; namely, server side Swift using Vapor. As I mentioned, I hope to become a full stack developer. It seems only natural to develop both halves if you intend to publish your own apps for commerecial reasons, as I do.

Formerly, I was VP of business develoment for an app startup. We built productivity apps for a large life science company which was a market leader in industry-related apps. We built a number of apps for them; one was a sales app, like Amazon, but exclusively for their products like pipettes and viruses. But the most effective app we developed provided app connectivity to one of their laboratory machines, providing remote access and control while an experiment is running. *Every* scientist we spoke to, and I mean *every* scientist, said that remote monitoring changes everything; it provides peace of mind during those super critical experiments where a mistake would be unbearably costly. I felt like we struck gold, a technical solution to an obvious pain point. I played a critical part in getting us to that point. Unfortunately, there were differences of opinion on business strategy and we weren't able to capitalize on the opportunity to its fullest. I quit the company--amicably, I remain good friends with the cofounder--and the startup shut down soon thereafter.

Though it didn't end as I hoped, I learned the app world from the business side and I found it fascinating. At one point, we published an app for a customer and our biggest users were in Germany. The app was written for English speakers. Yes, I know, they speak English in Germany; but still, we did nothing at all to access a market in Germany. And I mean nothing at all. That's when it dawned on me: the app world is huge. And anyone can swim in those waters if you're willing to try.

And so I was inspired to learn how to code in Swift because I want to make a career of this. I started soon after Swift became open source available, in December 2015, so I count myself as an early adopter. Learning was hard, very hard, at first. But over time I began to get it. Swift Meetups continue to help tremendously in this regard. A major breakthrough was finding a Swift tutor that I met at a Meetup. I'm still learning, and I'm amazed at the volume of material that app development covers, so there's no discernable end point to what I need to learn. But my hopes remain unaffected: I want to create apps because there's a world of opportunity with apps.

## MEMS

In my previous career I was the lead MEMS technologist for a string of MEMS-based companies, mostly startups. MEMS is a field in mechanical engineering where structures smaller than the diameter of a human hair are built using silicon. It has a number of applications, most prominently in optics. I've been awarded five patents in my field and written a couple of publications.
